Abstract & Problem Definition: 
Our project provides a solution by creating a smarter attendance system.As we all know that in majority
of the schools and colleges attendance is taken manually which makes the process more time
consuming and if the data is to be stored then the record needs to be stored for each student. 
This makes the process complex for entering the data as well. With our smart attendance system we
minimize the effort that is currently required to maintain and store attendance. This will help in reducing
possible errors while entering the data and time required to record attendance is less.

Objectives: 
1. To make use of emerging technologies to improve academic system.
2. To make the process of recording attendance more efficient with respect to time as well as data 
	maintainability.
3.  Ease in accessing student information(through portal)

System Design: 

Methodology: 

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS:
1. Flask Framework will be used for the Frontend of the Portal.
2. FireBase can be used for portal user authentication.
3. face_recognition machine learning model will be used.
4. A noSQL database will be used for dynamic data entry for student attendance.
5. OpenCV python model will be used for taking input from the WebCAM/CCTV.  

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS:
1. A webcam/cctv with high resolution.

FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
1. Video input is taken from the camera and faces are recognized using the face_recognition model.
2. System then maps the face of student to the student name and usn.
3. The system then stores the student and corresponding attendace in a database provided by the portal
to each faculty.

NON-FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
1. System must detect atleast 10 people at one time with high accuracy.
2. Record storing must be instantaneous and dynamic in nature.
3. Attendance percentage to be calculated accurately. 

Possible Outcomes:
1. Improved and well stuctured attendance system.
2. Easy attendance data maintainance.
3. Increased efficiency in the process of conducting and maintaining attendance for all parties.

References: 


